content/blog/five-years-2022-retrospective.md, before:

---
title: 2022 retrospective and Mockoon 5th anniversary
excerpt: Let's celebrate the new year by putting some light on recent new features (folders, data buckets, etc.) and five years of Mockooning
date: '2023-01-13'
image: five-years-2022-retrospective.png
imageAlt: Mockoon user interface
imageWidth: 1200
imageHeight: 400
meta:
  title: 2022 retrospective and Mockoon 5th anniversary
  description: Let's celebrate the new year by putting some light on recent new features (folders, data buckets, etc.) and five years of Mockooning
---

Happy New Year from the Mockoon team! The new year is a great occasion to reflect on what we did during the past months. We also celebrated (quietly) Mockoon's 5th anniversary at the end of 2022 🎉

## New and upcoming

Since the last blog post, we've released several major updates and new features that we're excited to share with you.

📁 One of the most popular updates is the ability to [organize routes into folders](/docs/latest/api-endpoints/folders/), making it easier for users to keep track of their API endpoints, and regroup or hide some of them. It was one of the oldest opened issues, and we are glad it is now generally available.

☁️ We also released a new [serverless package](/serverless/), allowing users to use their mock APIs in serverless environments (Firebase Functions, AWS Lambda, etc.).

🪣 Finally, we introduced [data buckets](http://localhost:3000/tutorials/use-persisting-data-buckets/), a powerful key-value store available in each environment. Data buckets are persistent and generated when the server starts. This feature will make the development of CRUD and GraphQL routes easier in the future.

### 🆕 And after?

As we look ahead to the new year, we're excited to announce several upcoming features that we think you'll love:

First, we will soon start working on CRUD endpoints, which will make it easier for users to create routes that automatically create, read, update, and delete data within their data buckets. This feature is by far the most requested, and many newcomers expect Mockoon's route to work this way.
We will tackle the GraphQL mocking feature that we started last year.

We're also planning to launch a new cloud offering later this year. It will allow solo developers to synchronize their data between their devices and later collaborate with a team.
In the longer term, we would like to offer cloud deployments and remote CLI management. But one step at a time.

## Five years 🎂

Five years ago, in 2017, our founder [Guillaume](https://github.com/255kb/) created a small API mocking desktop application for his use. After sustained years of growth and positive feedback, he left his job and went full-time on the project somewhere in 2021. And here we are, five years later and 300&nbsp;000 downloads and counting!
We're humbled by the continuous trust and support of our users and are constantly working to improve and innovate to make Mockoon better.

And after all this time, Mockoon is still an open-source tool built by volunteer maintainers. To continue working on this project and sustain ourselves, we are looking for sponsors.
If you like our application, please consider sponsoring us too and join all the [Sponsors and Backers](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/blob/main/backers.md) who helped this project over time!

[![sponsor button{300x86}](/images/sponsor-btn.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/mockoon)

As part of this search for sustainability, we are now offering [enterprise services](/enterprise/): live support, applications deployment, bug prioritization, custom development, etc. Do not hesitate to reach out if your company needs such services.

---

We're so grateful for the support and feedback of our users, and we're excited to continue to improve and innovate in the coming year. Thank you for choosing Mockoon, and here's to an amazing 2023!

Commit message:

New release
- Remove doc v1.20.0
- add changelog
- Add pro plans and account management
- Add docs handlebars char escaping
- add templates and AI landing pages
- Update features and FAQ
- Merge enterprise support into pro plan

Add store links to the download page

content/blog/five-years-2022-retrospective.md, after:

---
title: 2022 retrospective and Mockoon 5th anniversary
excerpt: Let's celebrate the new year by putting some light on recent new features (folders, data buckets, etc.) and five years of Mockooning
date: '2023-01-13'
image: five-years-2022-retrospective.png
imageAlt: Mockoon user interface
imageWidth: 1200
imageHeight: 400
meta:
  title: 2022 retrospective and Mockoon 5th anniversary
  description: Let's celebrate the new year by putting some light on recent new features (folders, data buckets, etc.) and five years of Mockooning
---

Happy New Year from the Mockoon team! The new year is a great occasion to reflect on what we did during the past months. We also celebrated (quietly) Mockoon's 5th anniversary at the end of 2022 🎉

## New and upcoming

Since the last blog post, we've released several major updates and new features that we're excited to share with you.

📁 One of the most popular updates is the ability to [organize routes into folders](/docs/latest/api-endpoints/folders/), making it easier for users to keep track of their API endpoints, and regroup or hide some of them. It was one of the oldest opened issues, and we are glad it is now generally available.

☁️ We also released a new [serverless package](/serverless/), allowing users to use their mock APIs in serverless environments (Firebase Functions, AWS Lambda, etc.).

🪣 Finally, we introduced [data buckets](http://localhost:3000/tutorials/use-persisting-data-buckets/), a powerful key-value store available in each environment. Data buckets are persistent and generated when the server starts. This feature will make the development of CRUD and GraphQL routes easier in the future.

### 🆕 And after?

As we look ahead to the new year, we're excited to announce several upcoming features that we think you'll love:

First, we will soon start working on CRUD endpoints, which will make it easier for users to create routes that automatically create, read, update, and delete data within their data buckets. This feature is by far the most requested, and many newcomers expect Mockoon's route to work this way.
We will tackle the GraphQL mocking feature that we started last year.

We're also planning to launch a new cloud offering later this year. It will allow solo developers to synchronize their data between their devices and later collaborate with a team.
In the longer term, we would like to offer cloud deployments and remote CLI management. But one step at a time.

## Five years 🎂

Five years ago, in 2017, our founder [Guillaume](https://github.com/255kb/) created a small API mocking desktop application for his use. After sustained years of growth and positive feedback, he left his job and went full-time on the project somewhere in 2021. And here we are, five years later and 300&nbsp;000 downloads and counting!
We're humbled by the continuous trust and support of our users and are constantly working to improve and innovate to make Mockoon better.

And after all this time, Mockoon is still an open-source tool built by volunteer maintainers. To continue working on this project and sustain ourselves, we are looking for sponsors.
If you like our application, please consider sponsoring us too and join all the [Sponsors and Backers](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/blob/main/backers.md) who helped this project over time!

[![sponsor button{300x86}](/images/sponsor-btn.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/mockoon)

As part of this search for sustainability, we now have [Pro plans](/pro/) including, AI-powered API mocks generation, enterprise-grade support, and more!

---

We're so grateful for the support and feedback of our users, and we're excited to continue to improve and innovate in the coming year. Thank you for choosing Mockoon, and here's to an amazing 2023!
