content/docs/latest/mockoon-data-files/data-storage-location.md, before:

---
title: Data storage location
meta:
  title: Data storage location
  description: Learn where Mockoon's data storage files and application settings are located and how to move them to other folders
order: 1100
---

# Data storage location

---

## Locating the files

Since [v1.16.0](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/releases/tag/v1.16.0), Mockoon is storing each mock API's data in a separate file.

You can locate the folder in which the API data are stored by right-clicking on each environment and selecting **"Show data file in explorer/finder"**:

![click on show in folder in the context menu{455x312}](docs-img:environment-show-in-folder.png)

## Moving the files

You can move the data files to another folder by right-clicking on an environment and selecting **"Move data file to folder"**:

![click on Move data file to folder in folder in the context menu{455x344}](docs-img:environment-move-to-folder.png)

> Please note that the environment file will be copied to the new folder, and the original file will **not** be deleted. If you want to delete the original file, you will have to do it manually.

## Old system

Before version 1.16.0, all of your environments were stored in the same `environments.json` file in the **application data folder**. The file was located in your operating system's user folder:

- Windows: `c:/Users/xxx/AppData/Roaming/mockoon/storage`
- Linux: `~/.config/mockoon/storage`
- macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/mockoon/storage`

When updating to version 1.16.0, Mockoon automatically migrated the old `environments.json` file (see below) and split it into as many files as you had environments. These files were created in the same `storage` folder with incremental names: `environment-0.json`, `environment-1.json`, etc.

![one file vs multiple files after the migration{600x252}](/images/docs/shared/storage-migration.png)

Commit message:

Release v5.0.0
Remove older docs
Add changelog
Add doc for mockoon/mockoon#1138
Add dock for mockoon/mockoon#995 and rework doc table of content
Add file monitoring to the docs
Add documentation for mockoon/mockoon#221

Closes #115

content/docs/latest/mockoon-data-files/data-storage-location.md, after:

---
title: Data storage location
meta:
  title: Data storage location
  description: Learn where Mockoon's data storage files and application settings are located and how to move them to other folders
order: 900
---

# Data storage location

---

## Locating the files

Since [v1.16.0](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/releases/tag/v1.16.0), Mockoon is storing each mock API's data in a separate file.

You can locate the folder in which the API data are stored by right-clicking on each environment and selecting **"Show data file in explorer/finder"**:

![click on show in folder in the context menu{455x312}](docs-img:environment-show-in-folder.png)

## Moving the files

You can move the data files to another folder by right-clicking on an environment and selecting **"Move data file to folder"**:

![click on Move data file to folder in folder in the context menu{455x344}](docs-img:environment-move-to-folder.png)

> Please note that the environment file will be copied to the new folder, and the original file will **not** be deleted. If you want to delete the original file, you will have to do it manually.

## Enabling data file watching

Mockoon can monitor data files' external changes and automatically reload the interface with the new information. This is particularly useful when you are editing the data files with an external editor or pulling changes from a git repository. You can activate this option in the settings:

![enable file monitoring in the settings{860x812}](docs-img:enable-file-watching.png)

## Old system (pre v1.16.0)

Before version 1.16.0, all of your environments were stored in the same `environments.json` file in the **application data folder**. The file was located in your operating system's user folder:

- Windows: `c:/Users/xxx/AppData/Roaming/mockoon/storage`
- Linux: `~/.config/mockoon/storage`
- macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/mockoon/storage`

When updating to version 1.16.0, Mockoon automatically migrated the old `environments.json` file (see below) and split it into as many files as you had environments. These files were created in the same `storage` folder with incremental names: `environment-0.json`, `environment-1.json`, etc.

![one file vs multiple files after the migration{600x252}](/images/docs/shared/storage-migration.png)

> ⚠️ The automatic migration was dropped in [version 5.0.0](/releases/5.0.0/). If you are updating from v1.15.0, please first update to any version between v1.16.0 and v4.1.0, then to v5.0.0.
