content/docs/latest/api-endpoints/crud-routes.md, before:

---
title: CRUD routes
meta:
  title: Mockoon CRUD routes documentation
  description: All you need to know about Mockoon's mock API CRUD routes creation, behavior, data bucket operations and data manipulation.
order: 220
---

# CRUD routes

---

## Overview

Where Mockoon routes are [independent and stateless](docs:api-endpoints/http-routes), CRUD routes can generate multiple endpoints to perform CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update, Delete) on [data buckets](docs:data-buckets/overview). Data buckets are generated when the server start, their state persisting between calls. It makes them the perfect tool to simulate small databases.

A CRUD endpoint will automatically create a series of routes during runtime, allowing you to perform actions on your data bucket. A typical example is an array of resources (users, invoices, etc.) you can update through a PUT request and see the result in a subsequent GET request.

To create a CRUD route, click on the "CRUD route" entry in the add route menu:

![Add a new CRUD route{498x304}](docs-img:add-crud-route.png)

Then, set its path, usually a [resource name](/articles/api-guide-rest-api-components/#resource-url-request):

![Set the CRUD route path{1484x176}](docs-img:set-crud-route-path.png)

> 💡 Your path can be more complex, and contains parameters or multiple sections. Remember that this will be the "prefix" of the different endpoints (see below).

## Data bucket link

After creating a CRUD endpoint, you need to link it to a data bucket:

![Link a data bucket to a CRUD route{1484x334}](docs-img:link-data-bucket-crud-route.png)

> Head over to our [data buckets](docs:data-buckets/overview) documentation to learn how to create a new data bucket.

### Supported content

The CRUD route will work with any content stored in your data bucket: valid JSON in the form of an array of objects, an object, a primitive, etc., or any non-valid JSON. The route behaviors will vary depending on the content stored in the bucket (see table below).

> 🛠️ Use our [JSON validator](/tools/json-validator/) to check if your content is valid JSON.

### Resetting the data bucket content

The data bucket content is generated when the server starts, and its state persists between calls. However, its state will not be saved in the [data file](docs:mockoon-data-files/data-storage-location), and you can reset it to its initial state by restarting the mock API.

## CRUD route differences

When creating a CRUD route, you may notice some differences in the interface, namely:

- The route HTTP method cannot be set and will be handled automatically.
- The status code cannot be changed and will be set automatically while performing operations.
- A fixed and default route response is automatically created and **must** be linked to a data bucket in order to perform CRUD operations.

Latency and custom headers can still be added. However, an `application/json` `Content-Type` will be forced when appropriate.

Also, CRUD routes are still compatible with creating [multiple responses and rules](docs:route-responses/multiple-responses). The major difference is that the default route response cannot be set and will always be the first one linked to the data bucket. This response cannot be deleted nor reordered. Aside from these differences everything else still applies.

## List of routes and operations

Mockoon will automatically translate a CRUD endpoint to multiple routes allowing for a wide range of behaviors. The system is very flexible and allows for any content, storing and updating primitives to simulate a flag or environment variable system, updating and sorting an array of objects, etc.

|            |                  | Array of objects                                                                 | Array of primitives (`id` parameter is acting like an index) | Object, primitive or non-valid JSON       |
| ---------- | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| **GET**    | `/resources`     | Returns the entire array \*                                                      | Returns the entire array \*                                  | Returns the content                       |
| **GET**    | `/resources/:id` | Returns an object by its `id` property                                           | Returns an item by its index                                 | Returns the content                       |
| **POST**   | `/resources`     | Inserts a new object in the array (autogenerate the `id` (UUID) if not provided) | Inserts a new item in the array                              | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PUT**    | `/resources`     | Replaces the whole data bucket content                                           | Replaces the whole data bucket content                       | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PUT**    | `/resources/:id` | Performs a full object update by its `id` (replace)                              | Replaces the item at index                                   | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PATCH**  | `/resources`     | Concatenates the arrays                                                          | Concatenates the arrays                                      | Overwrites the content (merge if objects) |
| **PATCH**  | `/resources/:id` | Performs a partial object update by its `id` (merge)                             | Replaces the item at index                                   | Overwrites the content (merge if objects) |
| **DELETE** | `/resources`     | Deletes the data bucket content                                                  | Deletes the data bucket content                              | Deletes the content                       |
| **DELETE** | `/resources/:id` | Deletes an object by its `id`                                                    | Deletes an item at index                                     | Deletes the content                       |

\* Supports [filtering, sorting and pagination](#filtering-sorting-and-pagination-on-the-main-get-route)

> ⚠️ _Note:_ You can expect the above results assuming that you are sending the same type of content as the one stored in the data bucket (array ↔ array, object ↔ object, etc.). However, the system is very permissive, and you may push any content in an array, ending up with mixed type contents or replacing content with data of a different type.

## Customizing the "id" property

By default, CRUD endpoints will use the `id` property to identify objects in an array in all the routes manipulating a single resource (e.g. GET `/resource/:id`). However, you can change this property to anything you want, like `uuid`, `custom_id`, etc. The crud key also supports the dot notation, allowing you to perform CRUD operations based on nested properties (e.g. `data.id`).

![Customize the CRUD id property{1484x334}](docs-img:customize-crud-id-property-key.png)

## Overriding a route

You can easily override a CRUD operation route by declaring a regular HTTP route and putting it above the CRUD route (see [routes order](docs:api-endpoints/routing#routes-order)). This route will intercept the request allowing you to serve custom content for this operation.

## Filtering, sorting and pagination on the main GET route

The main `GET /path` route supports **filtering**, **sorting** and **pagination** when working with an **array**.

### Filtering

To filter an array, you can use query parameters in the form `[property]_[operator]`. For instance, if you want to filter an array of objects by their `status` property, you can use:

```
GET /path?status_eq=success
```

Currently, the following operators are supported:

| Operator | Description                                   | Example             |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `eq`     | Filters by equality                           | `status_eq=success` |
| `ne`     | Filters by inequality                         | `status_ne=error`   |
| `gt`     | Filters by greater                            | `price_gt=10`       |
| `gte`    | Filters by greater or equal                   | `price_gte=10`      |
| `lt`     | Filters by lower                              | `price_lt=10`       |
| `lte`    | Filters by lower or equal                     | `price_lte=10`      |
| `like`   | Filters by partial match \*                   | `name_like=ohn do`  |
| `start`  | Filters properties that start with a value \* | `name_start=john`   |
| `end`    | Filters properties that end with a value \*   | `name_end=doe`      |

\* Case insensitive

Filters work on every primitive value (strings, numbers, booleans, etc.), so you can filter by `true` or `false` values, or even `null` values:

```
GET /path?is_active_eq=true
```

It also works on arrays of primitives, in which case using `_[operator]` is enough:

```
GET /path?_gte=10
```

Moreover, nesting is supported:

```
GET /path?user.email_end=@example.com
```

The `like`, `start` and `end` operators support regex patterns:

```
GET /path?user.name_like=^john
GET /path?user.id_like=^(123|456|789)$
```

#### Searching

To search an array, you can use the `search` query parameter. Search is a special kind of filter that will look for a partial match in any values (with nesting) in the array. For instance, if you want to search for `john` in an array of users, you can use:

```
GET /path?search=john
```

> Searching also works on arrays of primitives (strings, numbers, etc.)

### Sorting

To sort an array, you can use the `sort` and `order` query parameters. You can sort by any property in the objects (strings or numbers) and order by either ascending or descending order:

```
GET /path?sort=name&order=desc
```

Sorting is also working on arrays of primitives (strings, numbers, etc.), in which case, the presence of the `sort` parameter is enough:

```
GET /path?sort&order=asc
```

### Pagination

To paginate an array, you can use the `page` and `limit` query parameters. If you omit the `limit` parameter, it will default to 10 per page. If you omit the `page` parameter, it will show you the first x items.

Examples:

- second set of 25 items:

  ```
  GET /path?page=2&limit=25
  ```

- first 50 items:

  ```
  GET /path?limit=50
  ```

- second set of 10 items:
  ```
  GET /path?page=2
  ```

Filtering, sorting and pagination can work together and are applied in the order: filtering / searching, sorting, pagination.

```
GET /path?search=j&email_end=@example.com&sort=name&page=2&limit=25
```

### Meta data

When using CRUD endpoints, you can access meta data about the data bucket content through response headers:

- `X-Total-Count`: total number of items in the bucket
- `X-Filtered-Count`: number of items after filtering (not taking into account pagination)

Commit message:

Release/next (#150)
* Prepare new release

* Add doc for new rule operator 'array includes' (#142)

* Remove enterprise plan from pricing

* Add documentation for improved presence indicators

See mockoon/mockoon#1512

* Set version 9.0.0

* Add isValidDate docs

See mockoon/mockoon#1510

* Add docs for new path and method rules

See mockoon/mockoon#1468 and mockoon/mockoon#1467

* Add uuid helper docs

See mockoon/mockoon#1533

* Update multipart docs

See mockoon/mockoon#1445

* Add hbs docs link in helpers page

* Update trial req/s limit

* Update docs for setData helper

See mockoon/mockoon#1098

* Add docs for CRUD numeric ids

see mockoon/mockoon#1542

* Add custom templating helper docs

See mockoon/mockoon#1545

* Websocket documentation (#143)

* websocket documentation

* websocket doc updates

* doc updates with images

* an update about websocket broadcasting

* Update docs for websockets

* Remove old docs

* Update docs for mockoon/mockoon#1557

* Add docs for new json schema rule

See mockoon/mockoon#1452

* Remove old docs

* Update cloud landing pages

* Add changelog

---------

Co-authored-by: Ankit <ajatkj.dev@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Isuru Weerarathna <isuruw89@gmail.com>

content/docs/latest/api-endpoints/crud-routes.md, after:

---
title: CRUD routes
meta:
  title: Mockoon CRUD routes documentation
  description: All you need to know about Mockoon's mock API CRUD routes creation, behavior, data bucket operations and data manipulation.
order: 220
---

# CRUD routes

---

## Overview

Where Mockoon routes are [independent and stateless](docs:api-endpoints/http-routes), CRUD routes can generate multiple endpoints to perform CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update, Delete) on [data buckets](docs:data-buckets/overview). Data buckets are generated when the server start, their state persisting between calls. It makes them the perfect tool to simulate small databases.

A CRUD endpoint will automatically create a series of routes during runtime, allowing you to perform actions on your data bucket. A typical example is an array of resources (users, invoices, etc.) you can update through a PUT request and see the result in a subsequent GET request.

To create a CRUD route, click on the "CRUD route" entry in the add route menu:

![Add a new CRUD route{498x335}](docs-img:add-crud-route.png)

Then, set its path, usually a [resource name](/articles/api-guide-rest-api-components/#resource-url-request):

![Set the CRUD route path{1484x176}](docs-img:set-crud-route-path.png)

> 💡 Your path can be more complex, and contains parameters or multiple sections. Remember that this will be the "prefix" of the different endpoints (see below).

## Data bucket link

After creating a CRUD endpoint, you need to link it to a data bucket:

![Link a data bucket to a CRUD route{1484x334}](docs-img:link-data-bucket-crud-route.png)

> Head over to our [data buckets](docs:data-buckets/overview) documentation to learn how to create a new data bucket.

### Supported content

The CRUD route will work with any content stored in your data bucket: valid JSON in the form of an array of objects, an object, a primitive, etc., or any non-valid JSON. The route behaviors will vary depending on the content stored in the bucket (see table below).

> 🛠️ Use our [JSON validator](/tools/json-validator/) to check if your content is valid JSON.

### Resetting the data bucket content

The data bucket content is generated when the server starts, and its state persists between calls. However, its state will not be saved in the [data file](docs:mockoon-data-files/data-storage-location), and you can reset it to its initial state by restarting the mock API.

## CRUD route differences

When creating a CRUD route, you may notice some differences in the interface, namely:

- The route HTTP method cannot be set and will be handled automatically.
- The status code cannot be changed and will be set automatically while performing operations.
- A fixed and default route response is automatically created and **must** be linked to a data bucket in order to perform CRUD operations.

Latency and custom headers can still be added. However, an `application/json` `Content-Type` will be forced when appropriate.

Also, CRUD routes are still compatible with creating [multiple responses and rules](docs:route-responses/multiple-responses). The major difference is that the default route response cannot be set and will always be the first one linked to the data bucket. This response cannot be deleted nor reordered. Aside from these differences everything else still applies.

## List of routes and operations

Mockoon will automatically translate a CRUD endpoint to multiple routes allowing for a wide range of behaviors. The system is very flexible and allows for any content, storing and updating primitives to simulate a flag or environment variable system, updating and sorting an array of objects, etc.

|            |                  | Array of objects                                                                                  | Array of primitives (`id` parameter is acting like an index) | Object, primitive or non-valid JSON       |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| **GET**    | `/resources`     | Returns the entire array \*                                                                       | Returns the entire array \*                                  | Returns the content                       |
| **GET**    | `/resources/:id` | Returns an object by its `id` property                                                            | Returns an item by its index                                 | Returns the content                       |
| **POST**   | `/resources`     | Inserts a new object in the array ([autogenerated](#customizing-the-id-property) if not provided) | Inserts a new item in the array                              | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PUT**    | `/resources`     | Replaces the whole data bucket content                                                            | Replaces the whole data bucket content                       | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PUT**    | `/resources/:id` | Performs a full object update by its `id` (replace)                                               | Replaces the item at index                                   | Overwrites the content                    |
| **PATCH**  | `/resources`     | Concatenates the arrays                                                                           | Concatenates the arrays                                      | Overwrites the content (merge if objects) |
| **PATCH**  | `/resources/:id` | Performs a partial object update by its `id` (merge)                                              | Replaces the item at index                                   | Overwrites the content (merge if objects) |
| **DELETE** | `/resources`     | Deletes the data bucket content                                                                   | Deletes the data bucket content                              | Deletes the content                       |
| **DELETE** | `/resources/:id` | Deletes an object by its `id`                                                                     | Deletes an item at index                                     | Deletes the content                       |

\* Supports [filtering, sorting and pagination](#filtering-sorting-and-pagination-on-the-main-get-route)

> ⚠️ _Note:_ You can expect the above results assuming that you are sending the same type of content as the one stored in the data bucket (array ↔ array, object ↔ object, etc.). However, the system is very permissive, and you may push any content in an array, ending up with mixed type contents or replacing content with data of a different type.

## Customizing the "id" property

## Changing the property name

By default, CRUD endpoints will use the `id` property to identify objects in an array in all the routes manipulating a single resource (e.g. GET `/resource/:id`). However, you can change this property to anything you want, like `uuid`, `custom_id`, etc. The crud key also supports the dot notation, allowing you to perform CRUD operations based on nested properties (e.g. `data.id`).

![Customize the CRUD id property{1484x334}](docs-img:customize-crud-id-property-key.png)

## Autogenerated IDs and numeric IDs

The "id" property is **autogenerated** during a `POST /resources` request if not provided in the request's body. It will be a random UUID v4 string by default. The system will also detect if existing objects in the data bucket have numeric IDs and automatically increment the ID of the inserted object instead of generating a UUID.

> 💡 The only constraint for using numeric IDs is the presence of at least one object with a numeric ID in the data bucket. If no object has a numeric ID, the system will default to UUIDs.

## Overriding a route

You can easily override a CRUD operation route by declaring a regular HTTP route and putting it above the CRUD route (see [routes order](docs:api-endpoints/routing#routes-order)). This route will intercept the request allowing you to serve custom content for this operation.

## Filtering, sorting and pagination on the main GET route

The main `GET /path` route supports **filtering**, **sorting** and **pagination** when working with an **array**.

### Filtering

To filter an array, you can use query parameters in the form `[property]_[operator]`. For instance, if you want to filter an array of objects by their `status` property, you can use:

```
GET /path?status_eq=success
```

Currently, the following operators are supported:

| Operator | Description                                   | Example             |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `eq`     | Filters by equality                           | `status_eq=success` |
| `ne`     | Filters by inequality                         | `status_ne=error`   |
| `gt`     | Filters by greater                            | `price_gt=10`       |
| `gte`    | Filters by greater or equal                   | `price_gte=10`      |
| `lt`     | Filters by lower                              | `price_lt=10`       |
| `lte`    | Filters by lower or equal                     | `price_lte=10`      |
| `like`   | Filters by partial match \*                   | `name_like=ohn do`  |
| `start`  | Filters properties that start with a value \* | `name_start=john`   |
| `end`    | Filters properties that end with a value \*   | `name_end=doe`      |

\* Case insensitive

Filters work on every primitive value (strings, numbers, booleans, etc.), so you can filter by `true` or `false` values, or even `null` values:

```
GET /path?is_active_eq=true
```

It also works on arrays of primitives, in which case using `_[operator]` is enough:

```
GET /path?_gte=10
```

Moreover, nesting is supported:

```
GET /path?user.email_end=@example.com
```

The `like`, `start` and `end` operators support regex patterns:

```
GET /path?user.name_like=^john
GET /path?user.id_like=^(123|456|789)$
```

#### Searching

To search an array, you can use the `search` query parameter. Search is a special kind of filter that will look for a partial match in any values (with nesting) in the array. For instance, if you want to search for `john` in an array of users, you can use:

```
GET /path?search=john
```

> Searching also works on arrays of primitives (strings, numbers, etc.)

### Sorting

To sort an array, you can use the `sort` and `order` query parameters. You can sort by any property in the objects (strings or numbers) and order by either ascending or descending order:

```
GET /path?sort=name&order=desc
```

Sorting is also working on arrays of primitives (strings, numbers, etc.), in which case, the presence of the `sort` parameter is enough:

```
GET /path?sort&order=asc
```

### Pagination

To paginate an array, you can use the `page` and `limit` query parameters. If you omit the `limit` parameter, it will default to 10 per page. If you omit the `page` parameter, it will show you the first x items.

Examples:

- second set of 25 items:

  ```
  GET /path?page=2&limit=25
  ```

- first 50 items:

  ```
  GET /path?limit=50
  ```

- second set of 10 items:
  ```
  GET /path?page=2
  ```

Filtering, sorting and pagination can work together and are applied in the order: filtering / searching, sorting, pagination.

```
GET /path?search=j&email_end=@example.com&sort=name&page=2&limit=25
```

### Meta data

When using CRUD endpoints, you can access meta data about the data bucket content through response headers:

- `X-Total-Count`: total number of items in the bucket
- `X-Filtered-Count`: number of items after filtering (not taking into account pagination)
