content/docs/latest/api-endpoints/routing.md, before:

---
title: Routing
meta:
  title: Mockoon routing documentation
  description: Everything about Mockoon mock API paths creation, API prefix, route parameters, query strings, wildcards and more
order: 200
---

# Routing

---

## API prefix

In order to prefix all your mock API routes,

Open the **Environment Settings** by clicking on the tab at the top of the window:

![click on the settings tab{921x160}](docs-img:open-environment-settings.png)

Then, fill the **API prefix** input at the top of the **environment Settings**:

![fill the prefix input{1128x298}](docs-img:environment-prefix.png)

The prefix will appear under your environment name in the environments list. All your environment's routes will now be prefixed and available at the following address `http://localhost:port/myprefix/myroute` instead of `http://localhost:port/myroute`.

You need to restart the environment for the change to take effect.

## API routes

Mockoon uses Express to run the mock servers. In general, most of the Express' documentation applies. Please refer to the [routing documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html) for more information and examples on the following topics.

### Routes order

Routes are declared in the server in the order displayed in the application (inside folders or not). This means that the first ones take precedence over the following ones.

One consequence is that a route parameter will capture any value at the specific URL segment. For example, `/users/:id` or `/users/*` will intercept `/users/search`. The more specific "search" route should be declared first. You can always reorder routes by dragging and dropping them.

### Route patterns and regexes

Routes support certain patterns and a subset of regular expressions. Here are some examples of the available ones:

- `/path/*` will match `/path/anything`.
- `/ab?cd` will match `/acd` and `/abcd`.
- `/ab+cd` will match `abcd`, `abbcd`, `abbbcd`, and so on.
- `/ab(cd)?e` will match `/abe` and `/abcde`.

![route pattern{1123x74}](docs-img:route-patterns.png)

For a complete overview of the patterns available, please refer to Express' [route paths documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#route-paths).

> 💡 To use parentheses in your path as a normal character, you can escape them by either using a backslashe `\` or square brackets `[]`:
> `/part1[(]part2[)]` > `/part1\(part2\)`

### Route parameters

Route parameters can be defined in routes by using a colon `:`. The name of a parameter can only contains the following characters `A-Za-z0-9_`.

![route parameter{1123x74}](docs-img:route-params.png)

For a complete overview on how to use and declare route parameters, please refer to Express' [route parameters documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#route-parameters).

You can also retrieve the route parameters by using the `{{urlParam 'paramName'}}` [templating helper](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#urlparam).

> 💡 To use a colon `:` in your route path as a normal character, you can escape it by either using double backslashes `\\` or square brackets `[]`:
> `/part1[:]part2` > `/part1\\:part2`

### Query parameters

Routes **must** be declared without query parameters as they are not part of the route path. They can only be added to the request when calling an endpoint.

Query parameters can be retrieved with the **[`queryParam`](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#queryparam) and [`queryParamRaw`](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#queryparamraw) helpers** and are available in the **[response rules](docs:route-responses/dynamic-rules)** to check their content and serve different responses based on them.

**Arrays and objects are supported** in the query string. For more information, please refer to the [query parameters documentation](docs:requests/query-parameters).

### Temporarily disable a route

You can **disable a route** by clicking on the **Toggle route** entry in the route dropdown menu. The route will be marked with a red border and will not be accessible until you enable it again.

![disable route entry in the route dropdown menu{651x322}](docs-img:route-menu-disable-route.png)

You can also disable all routes in a folder by using the **Toggle direct child routes** entry in the folder dropdown menu.

When running your mock API using the [CLI](/cli/), you can [disable routes using the `--disable-routes` flag](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/tree/main/packages/cli#disabling-routes) followed by a route UUID or keyword/name or a folder keyword/name: `mockoon start --disable-routes myroute folder2`.

When using the [serverless package](/serverless/), you can [disable routes using the `disabledRoutes` option](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/tree/main/packages/serverless#disabling-routes).

Commit message:

Release/next (#152)
* Use new user profile type

* Prepare new release

* Remove old docs and add docs for deploy option

* Package lock

* Rewrite data files docs and remove old rf to v1.16.0

* Update docs for JSON schema improved support

* Add JSON schema tutorial

* Update docs with new tool

* Remove old sponsor images

* docs image change

* Add doc for deploy custom subdomain

* Add docs for object merging helpers update

* add docs

* Add changelog

* Changelog formatting

content/docs/latest/api-endpoints/routing.md, after:

---
title: Routing
meta:
  title: Mockoon routing documentation
  description: Everything about Mockoon mock API paths creation, API prefix, route parameters, query strings, wildcards and more
order: 200
---

# Routing

---

## API prefix

In order to prefix all your mock API routes,

Open the **Environment Settings** by clicking on the tab at the top of the window:

![click on the settings tab{921x160}](docs-img:open-environment-settings.png)

Then, fill the **API prefix** input at the top of the **environment Settings**:

![fill the prefix input{1128x298}](docs-img:environment-prefix.png)

The prefix will appear under your environment name in the environments list. All your environment's routes will now be prefixed and available at the following address `http://localhost:port/myprefix/myroute` instead of `http://localhost:port/myroute`.

You need to restart the environment for the change to take effect.

## API routes

Mockoon uses Express to run the mock servers. In general, most of the Express' documentation applies. Please refer to the [routing documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html) for more information and examples on the following topics.

### Routes order

Routes are declared in the server in the order displayed in the application (inside folders or not). This means that the first ones take precedence over the following ones.

One consequence is that a route parameter will capture any value at the specific URL segment. For example, `/users/:id` or `/users/*` will intercept `/users/search`. The more specific "search" route should be declared first. You can always reorder routes by dragging and dropping them.

### Route patterns and regexes

Routes support certain patterns and a subset of regular expressions. Here are some examples of the available ones:

- `/path/*` will match `/path/anything`.
- `/ab?cd` will match `/acd` and `/abcd`.
- `/ab+cd` will match `abcd`, `abbcd`, `abbbcd`, and so on.
- `/ab(cd)?e` will match `/abe` and `/abcde`.

![route pattern{1123x74}](docs-img:route-patterns.png)

For a complete overview of the patterns available, please refer to Express' [route paths documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#route-paths).

> 💡 To use parentheses in your path as a normal character, you can escape them by either using a backslashe `\` or square brackets `[]`:
> `/part1[(]part2[)]` > `/part1\(part2\)`

### Route parameters

Route parameters can be defined in routes by using a colon `:`. The name of a parameter can only contains the following characters `A-Za-z0-9_`.

![route parameter{1123x74}](docs-img:route-params.png)

For a complete overview on how to use and declare route parameters, please refer to Express' [route parameters documentation](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html#route-parameters).

You can also retrieve the route parameters by using the `{{urlParam 'paramName'}}` [templating helper](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#urlparam).

> 💡 To use a colon `:` in your route path as a normal character, you can escape it by either using double backslashes `\\` or square brackets `[]`:
> `/part1[:]part2` > `/part1\\:part2`

### Query parameters

Routes **must** be declared without query parameters as they are not part of the route path. They can only be added to the request when calling an endpoint.

Query parameters can be retrieved with the **[`queryParam`](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#queryparam) and [`queryParamRaw`](docs:templating/mockoon-request-helpers#queryparamraw) helpers** and are available in the **[response rules](docs:route-responses/dynamic-rules)** to check their content and serve different responses based on them.

**Arrays and objects are supported** in the query string. For more information, please refer to the [query parameters documentation](docs:requests/query-parameters).

### Temporarily disable a route

You can **disable a route** by clicking on the **Toggle route** entry in the route dropdown menu. The route will be marked with a red border and will not be accessible until you enable it again.

![disable route entry in the route dropdown menu{651x322}](docs-img:route-menu-disable-route.png)

You can also disable all routes in a folder by using the **Toggle direct child routes** entry in the folder dropdown menu.

When running your mock API using the [CLI](/cli/), you can [disable routes using the `--disable-routes` flag](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/tree/main/packages/cli#disabling-routes) followed by a route UUID or keyword/name or a folder keyword/name: `mockoon start -d ./data.json --disable-routes myroute folder2`. You can also disable all routes by using a wildcard: `mockoon start -d ./data.json --disable-routes "*"`.

When using the [serverless package](/serverless/), you can [disable routes using the `disabledRoutes` option](https://github.com/mockoon/mockoon/tree/main/packages/serverless#disabling-routes).
